# Jefferson Angel Areche Rojas
Cloud Engineer

## Summary
Network and Data Communications Engineer with six years of experience working with cloud infrastructure services (Azure, AWS, and GCP). I became a data enthusiast in 2022, and thereby, I studied for a diploma in Python for Machine Learning. I am primarily interested in transforming processes and business intelligence to develop new solutions for managing and analyzing large volumes of data. I have a solid knowledge of cloud computing services, data management and processing tools, data algorithms, and object-oriented programming with Python.

## Skills
- Programming Languages: Python, T-SQL, Powershell and Bash
- Cloud Services: AWS, Azure and Google Cloud Platform
- ML and AI: Scikit learn, Tensorflow, OpenCV, Azure Open AI, Azure AI, Copilot Studio and Vertex AI
- Data engineering: Azure Data Factory, Azure Synapse, Microsoft Fabric, Dataflow, Amazon MWAA, Apache Airflow, Apache Spark (Pyspark) and Pandas
- BI: Power BI and Quicksight
- Operating Systems: Windows and Linux
- Databases: MSSQL, MySQL, MongoDB, Cosmos DB (included graphs with Gremlin)
- Tools & Methods: Git, Azure DevOps, Terraform, Github Actions, Agile

## Experience
**Cirion Technologies** (2023 - Present)   
Cloud Technical Account Manager
- Control and management of costs generated by cloud computing consumption.
- Consumption data analysis to optimize operating expenses by applying consumption contracts and eliminating unnecessary resources.


**Lumen** (2018 - 2022)
Cloud Specialist
- Design and implement cloud computing architectures for business needs, especially over AWS and Azure.
- Manage and operationally support the infrastructure of different services for data storage, processing, analysis, and presentation.

## Projects
**Innovation Challenge Hackathon** (https://github.com/jeffangel/hackbox_grupo7)  
- This project was developed as part of the final product created to win second place in the Microsoft AI Hackathon in June 2024.


## Education

**Data Science Master** | University of Bath | Candidate

**Python for Data Science Diploma** | Valencia International University | 2023

**Network and Communications Engineer** | Peruvian University of Applied Sciences | 2022

**Network and Data Communications Technician** | Institute TECSUP | 2014